Version 0.17.0 release notes (#1485)
pyodide/pyodide: docs/project/release-notes.md

and C functions behave as expected. The error conversion code is generated by C
macros which makes implementing and debugging new logic dramatically simpler.

```pyodide
function jserror(){
   throw new Error("ooops!");
}
pyodide.runPython(`
   from js import jserror
   from pyodide import JsException
   try:
       jserror()
   except JsException as e:
      print(str(args)) # prints "TypeError: ooops!"
`);
```
(Added in PRs {pr}`1051` and {pr}`1080`)

### Python "builtin" Modules implemented in Javascript

It is now simple to add a Python module implemented in Javascript using
{any}`pyodide.registerJsModule`:
```pyodide
let my_module = {
    foo(x){
        return x*x + 1;
    },
    bar(y, z){
        return y*z + y + z;
    }
};
pyodide.registerJsModule("my_mod", my_module);
pyodide.runPython(`
    from my_mod import foo, bar
    foo(7) # 50
    bar(9, 5) # 59
`);
```
(Added in PR {pr}`1146`)

### New Conversion APIs
We added several new conversion APIs to give more explicit control over the
foreign function interface. In particular, the goal was to make it easier for
users to avoid leaking memory.

For the basic use cases, we have {any}`PyProxy.toJs` and {any}`JsProxy.to_py`.

> We also added also "wrong-way" conversion functions {any}`pyodide.to_js` and

Reviewer: It might be helpful to add slightly more explanation about these function as it might not be obvious for the reader.

instead {any}`globalThis.loadPyodide`. Access to Python globals via
{any}`pyodide.globals` has also changed: `pyodide.globals.x` ==>
`pyodide.globals.get("x")` (`pyodide.globals.x` is still supported but is
deprecated).

### Changes to type translations
In the past we found that one of the major pain points in using Pyodide occurred
when an object makes a round trip from Python to Javascript and back to Python
and comes back different. This violates the expectations of the user and forces
inelegant workarounds (see {issue}`780` and {issue}`892` among others).

The type conversion module has significantly reworked in v0.17 with the goal
that round trip conversions of objects between Python and Javascript produces an
identical object. That is, Python -> JS -> Python conversion produces an object
that's now equal to the original object, and JS -> Python -> JS conversion
verifies the `===` equality operation.

We also made extensive additions to the type conversions test suite and
documentation, though gaps remain.

See issue {issue}`900` for some of the discussion.

(Mostly implemented in PRs {pr}`1152` and {pr}`1167`, see also {pr}`1186` which )

### Changes to buffer translations

> The old buffer translation code was inflexible, leaky, and had serious bugs
> including use after free ({issue}`749`) and buffer overflow errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The buffer translation code in previous versions was less flexible, leaked memory,
and had serious bugs including use after free ({issue}`749`) and buffer overflow errors.
```
to be a bit more neutral

control, though they are not yet as ergonomic as they could be.

(Implemented in PRs {pr}`1215`, {pr}`1376`, and {pr}`1411`)

## Maintenance and Bug fixes
Pyodide version 0.17.0 comes with an enormous amount of maintenance work. There
is still a lot of work to do be done before Pyodide will be ready for a version
1.0, but we made very significant headway. Significant improvements were made to
every component of Pyodide, including the build system, the test suite and
continuous integration, and the core Pyodide code.

### Upstream Emscripten

We finally completed the migration to the latest version of Emscripten
(https://emscripten.org/) compiler toolchain which uses the upstream LLVM
backend. This allows us to take advantage of  recent improvements to the
toolchain reducing package size and execution time.

For instance, the scipy package  shrank dramatically from 92 MB to 15 MB. Scipy
is now automatically cached in browsers, greatly improving the usability of
scientific Python packages that depend on scipy, such as scikit-image and
scikit-learn. The size of the base Pyodide environment with only the CPython

> standard library shrank from 8.1 MB to 6.4 MB.

Reviewer: Well to be precise this is more due to not vendoring jedi than to Emscripten update, but I wasn't sure how and where to phrase in the current narrative.

Author: > more due to not vendoring jedi

That's a bit disappointing.

Reviewer: Yeah, I mean it does reduce the size of the generated wasm but in base pyodide by <0.5MB or so, but fair amount of size is due to `pyodide.asm.data` anyway.

On the performance side, the latest toolchain comes with a 25% to 30% run time
improvement for pure Python code.

Because we are now using a very recent Emscripten version, we were able to
upstream many of our patches to the compiler toolchain.

(Implemented in PRs {pr}`1102`, {pr}`1184` and {pr}`1193`.)

### Core C Code maintenance

The core C code base was improved with new macros that streamline the most
common tasks and help with consistency, and in addition to the extensive
additions to the test suite we performed a manual audit of the entire C codebase
to locate leaks and logic errors.

We fixed many of the long standing bugs caused by inconsistencies in the
behavior of {any}`JsProxy`. There used to be two different code paths for
producing a {any}`JsProxy` and two different code paths for calling a

> {any}`JsProxy` leading to four different behaviors, all of which were buggy in
> some cases. This fixed numerous bugs, including issues {issue}`461`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{any}`JsProxy` leading to four different behaviors, all of which were presented
errors in some cases. This fixed numerous bugs, including issues {issue}`461`,
```
